# CDC-Data-2018
Metabolomics and Sequence Data from humanized microbiota mice and human fecal minibioreactors treated with antibiotics

The human gastrointestinal (GI) microbiome plays an important role in health and disease. A healthy GI microbiome promotes immune homeostasis, stimulates epithelial renewal, enhances the epithelial barrier and converts dietary substrates (e.g., dietary fiber) and host metabolites (e.g., conjugated primary bile salts) into new compounds (e.g., short chain fatty acids and secondary bile salts, respectively) that have diverse impacts on other microbes and host physiology (reviewed in 1-3). Treatment with broad-spectrum antibiotics can disrupt the microbiome, with potential long-term implications for human health4,5. Antibiotic treatment also promotes the spread of antibiotic resistance through horizontal gene transfer6 and allows expansion of multidrug-resistant organisms 7-9. Therefore, new therapies are needed that spare the microbiome or restore it to health. 

Analysis of microbiome composition based upon 16S rRNA gene content has revealed high levels of interpersonal variation amongst people10. Age11,12 and prior antibiotic exposure13 can significantly impact microbiome composition. Although functional redundancy allows multiple microbiome configurations to support health10, interpersonal variation in microbiome composition can impact responses to antibiotics and other drugs through differences in susceptibility and metabolic capability of the microbiome4,14. Therefore, development of new therapies will be enhanced by pre-clinical models that facilitate testing of multiple configurations of the human microbiome and reflect the diversity of potential patient populations.

We have had previous success with two models of human microbiome function, humanized microbiota mice (HMbmice) and human fecal minibioreactor arrays (MBRAs)15,16. Both models have strengths and weaknesses, and neither fully reproduces the microbiome structure present in human feces. The primary strength of the MBRA model is its ability to facilitate lower-cost, higher-throughput studies. The primary strength of the HMbmouse model is its ability to recapitulate interactions between human GI microbes and a mammalian host. Therefore, we suggest that the most effective way to use these models is to combine them in a two-pronged approach. Human fecal MBRAs can be used as an initial, high throughput pre-screening tool to evaluate potential therapies. Leads identified in MBRA pre-screening can be further tested in populations of HMbmice. Treatments that are effective in both models, which represent different configurations of the host microbiome, may better reflect that potential for efficacy when translated to human populations.

The objective of the proposed work is to rigorously evaluate the suitability of HMbmice and MBRAs to respond in physiologically relevant ways to treatments that impact the human GI microbiome. To evaluate successful responses to treatments in these models, appropriate benchmarks are needed. Comparisons based upon microbial sequence composition alone are insufficient, as no published model faithfully reproduces the complexity and composition found in human fecal samples17. Therefore, we have identified several measures of microbiome function to assess in addition to microbiome composition for validation of HMbmice and MBRAs as models of the human GI microbiome. We propose to assay the following functional benchmarks:

1. C. difficile colonization resistance. Treatment with antibiotics is the most common predisposing factor for susceptibility to the gastrointestinal pathogen, Clostridium difficile (reviewed in 18). Disruption of C. difficile colonization resistance is one functional assessment that can and has been used to validate GI microbiome function in HMbmice and MBRAs15,16. 

2. Conversion of dietary fibers to short chain fatty acids (SCFAs). Fermentation of dietary fibers to short chain fatty acids (acetate, butyrate, propionate and lactate) is one function of a healthy microbiome3. Treatment of human volunteers with broad-spectrum antibiotics has been shown to alter levels of SCFAs19,20. 

3. Conversion of conjugated primary bile salts to secondary bile salts. Another key function of the healthy microbiome that can be disrupted by antibiotic treatment is the microbially-mediated conversion of host produced primary bile salts to secondary bile salts21-23. 

4. Sugar alcohol consumption. Sugar alcohols are produced as intermediates in carbohydrate metabolism24. In a conventional mouse models24,25, loss of bacteria that consume sugar alcohols due to antibiotic treatment leads to increased abundance of these compounds (mannitol and sorbitol are two specific sugar alcohols observed in both studies) that can serve as carbohydrate sources for C. difficile 25.

5. Suppression of multi-drug resistant organisms. Although antibiotic resistance is naturally occurring in the microbiome, treatment with antibiotics can select for emergence of multi-drug resistant organisms due to loss of colonization resistance7-9. We will test whether treatment with antibiotics alters the abundance of genes encoding for antibiotic resistance or alters that activities of antibiotic-modifying enzymes.

The data archived here represents the raw and processed data collected from the project described above under the contract 200-2017-96080 between the Centers for Disease Control and Baylor College of Medicine.
